Direct Paste of "The Christadelphian Instructor" by Robert Roberts from http://www.pioneerchristadelphians.org/Instructor.htm

Unsure of publication date. Wikisource indicates 1886, while http://www.antipas.org/books/instructor/inst_toc.html indicates 1891.
 

 

 

           The Christadelphian Instructor

 

1.—What is the meaning of "Christadelphian"?

ANSWER: It means brother or relative of Christ. It is the name of Christ and the Greek word for brother put into one.

 

2.—Who is a brother or relative of Christ?

ANSWER: He who performs the will of God.

PROOF: "For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother" (Matthew 12:50). "Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants" (John 15:14,15).

 

3.—What is it the will of God that we should do?

ANSWER: That we believe in His Son Jesus Christ and keep His commandments.

PROOF: "This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent" (John 6:29). "And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment. And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him" (1 John 3:23,24).

 

4.—Who is it that has given the name "Christ's brethren" to those who do the will of God?

ANSWER: It is Christ Himself who has done so.

PROOF: "..he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren " (Hebrews 2:11,12). "..go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me" (Matthew 28:10). "Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother" (Mark 3:34)."..to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the first-born among many brethren" (Romans 8:29).

 

5.—Why are the brethren of Christ called Christadelphian in our day instead of Christian?

ANSWER: Because multitudes are called Christian who do not believe the truth concerning Christ or obey His commandments. It has become, in fact, the name for a system of fable and error that has risen up in the world in the place of truth, in fulfilment of the predictions of the apostles. Therefore, to be known as a "Christian" is not to be known as a believer of the Truth.

PROOF: "They shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables" (2 Timothy 4:4). "Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things" (Acts 20:30). "And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of" (2 Peter 2:2). "..the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people" (Isaiah 60:2). "..the covering cast over all people..the veil spread over all nations" (Isaiah 25:7). "..inhabitants..drunk (i.e. spiritually)". "..all nations deceived" (Revelation 17:2; 18:23).

 

CONCERNING THE SCRIPTURES

 

6.—Where can we learn the will of God and the truth concerning Christ?

ANSWER: In the Holy Scriptures, which are known in our day as the Bible.

PROOF: "And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus" (2 Tim 3:15). "For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through

patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope" (Romans 15:4). "The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth under-

standing unto the simple" (Psalm 119:130). ".. by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith" (Romans 16:26). "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path" (Psalm 119:105).

 

7.—What is the Bible?

ANSWER: It is a book written by the power of inspiration working in prophets and apostles who lived in Israel a long time ago. They lived at different times, and each wrote his part independently of the others, but one Spirit moved them all, and enabled them to make known to men the mind of God in history, precept and prophecy, so that the Bible though composed of many books and parts, is the one Word of God.

PROOF: "All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness" (2 Timothy 3:16). "God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son" (Hebrews 1:1). "Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Spirit teacheth" (1 Corinthians 2:13). "For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit" (2 Peter 1:21). "Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth" (John 17:17). "thou..testifiedst against them by thy spirit in thy prophets" (Nehemiah 9:30). "..the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord" (I Corinthians 14:37).

 

8.—What are the names of the men principally employed by the Spirit of God in the writing of the Bible?

ANSWER: Moses, Joshua, Samuel, David, Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul, James, Jude and Peter.

 

9.—Into what parts is the Bible divided?

ANSWER: Into two parts: the Old and New Testaments. But in the days of Christ, the Scriptures were known as "Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms". The Old Testament was written by Moses and the Prophets, who came after him. The New Testament was written by the Apostles.

 

10.—Over what period of time does the composition of the Bible extend?

ANSWER: The Old Testament was begun by Moses about 1,600 years before Christ, and finished by Malachi a little over 1,200 years afterwards (before Christ 400). The New Testament was written during the lifetime of the Apostles, after the resurrection and ascension of Christ, over 1900 years ago.

 

11.—Of how many books is the Bible composed: and what are their names in order?

ANSWER: The Bible is composed of sixty-six books arranged in the following order of names. 

OLD TESTAMENT: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1st Samuel, 2nd Samuel, 1st Kings, 2nd Kings, 1st Chronicles, 2nd Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi.

NEW TESTAMENT: Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, 1st Corinthians, 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1st Thessalonians, 2nd Thessalonians, 1st Timothy, 2nd Timothy, Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, James, 1st Peter, 2nd Peter, 1st John, 2nd John, 3rd John, Jude, Revelation.

 

12.—What does the Bible, in its several books, reveal to us?

ANSWER: The Bible, given by inspiration of God, reveals to us the truth concerning God and concerning man.

 

CONCERNING GOD

 

13.—What does the Bible reveal concerning God?

ANSWER: That there is only one God, the Father of all, even of the Lord Jesus Christ, and therefore the common idea that God is  "a trinity" is unscriptural.

PROOF: "For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus" (1 Timothy 2:5). "Hear, O Israel, the LORD our God is one LORD" (Deuteronomy 6:4). "I am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside me" (Isaiah 45:5). "But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things" (1 Corinthians 8:6). "Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ" (2 Corinthians 1:3).   

 

14.—What does the Bible reveal concerning the character of God?

ANSWER: That He is kind, yet inflexible in the requirements of His law; loving and compassionate, yet terrible as a destroying fire against the rebellious and the guilty, forgiving towards offences, yet jealous of the dignity, the glory, and the supremacy of His name. He is holy, and cannot look upon sin. He is wise, and cannot tolerate fools. He is true and faithful, and will destroy all the false and perfidious. He is just and true and perfect — at once the fountain of love and vengeance, the author of life and death, the source of reviving mercy and consuming fire. He is eternal, unchangeable, unsearchable, infinite, glorious in power and majesty — the King immortal, the Possessor of heaven and earth, to whom alone is glory due.

PROOF: Exodus 20:6; Psalm 103:8-18; Hebrews 12:29; Exodus 34:5-7; Habakkuk 1:13; Psalm 5:5,6; Revelation 15:3; Jeremiah 10:10-13; Deuteronomy 32:4; 1 John 4:7,8,16; Hebrews 10:30-31; Deuteronomy 32:39; Hosea 14:4,6; Deuteronomy 32:21,23; 1 Timothy 1:17; Malachi 3:6; Psalm145:3, 147:5; Genesis 14: 19; Psalm 115:1.

 

15.—Is God confined to heaven though dwelling there?

ANSWER: No. He is everywhere present and nothing can be hid from His knowledge.

PROOF: "Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him? saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD" (Jeremiah 23:24). "All things are naked and opened unto the eyes of Him with whom we have to do" (Hebrews 4:13). "O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known me. Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off...for there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether" (Psalm 139:1,2,4). 

 

CONCERNING THE SPIRIT OF GOD

 

16.—In what way is God everywhere if He dwells in heaven?

ANSWER: God is everywhere present by His spirit which proceeds from Him, and which fills all space.

PROOF: "Thou sendest forth thy spirit" (Psalm 104:30) "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell (sheol, the grave),behold,thou art there" (Psalm 139:7,8).

 

17.—What is the Spirit of God?

ANSWER: It is His invisible power or energy breathed forth from His presence, and of like nature with His Glorious Person. By this, heaven and earth have been made and are preserved in being from moment to moment. In this we live and move and have our being in Him.

PROOF: "The Spirit of God hath made me" (Job 33:4). "By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens" (Job 26:13). "Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created" (Psalm104:30). "By the word of the Lord were the heavens made" (Psalm33:6). "..thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power" (Jeremiah 32:17). "In the beginning..the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters" (Genesis 1:1,2). "For in him we live, and move, and have our being" (Acts 17:28). "..if He gather unto himself his spirit and his breath; all flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust" (Job 34:14,15).

 

18.—Is God separate and different from the Spirit of God?

ANSWER: No. God and His Spirit cannot be separated. They are both one. The sun and the light that comes from the sun are both one So God, and the Spirit that comes from God, are both one. God is the centre and glorious substantial form of the Spirit that fills heaven and earth.

PROOF: The passages quoted in answers 14 to 17, also the following: "The Lord GOD, and his Spirit, hath sent me" (Isaiah 48:16). "My spirit shall not always strive with man" (Genesis 6:3). "Do not 1 fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD" (Jeremiah 23:24). "Whither shall I go from thy spirit?" (Psalm 139:7). "God is a Spirit" (John 4:24).

 

19.—Do these things teach you any lesson concerning your conduct?

ANSWER: Yes. They teach me that I am always in the presence of God though I do not feel it, and that He always sees me (even when it is dark) though I cannot see Him. Nothing can happen without His knowing it. Even my inmost thoughts and intentions He can discern, though I should seek to keep them secret.

PROOF: "Thou God seest me" (Genesis 16:13). "Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight" (Hebrews 4:13). "Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee" (Psalm 139:12). "For the word of God..is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart" (Hebrews 4:12).

 

CONCERNING THE SPIRITUAL BODY

 

20.—What is a Spiritual Body?

ANSWER: It is a body made in the glorious nature of the Spirit of God, and therefore incorruptible in substance and immortal in life.

PROOF: "There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body..Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual" (1 Corinthians 15:44,46). "That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit" (John 3:6). "..he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you" (Romans 8:11). "And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (1 Corinthians 15: 49). "For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality" (1 Corinthians 15:53). " Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body" (Philippians 3:21).

 

21.—Is a spiritual body like a mortal body?

ANSWER: It is like it in shape, but not in nature.

PROOF: "..we shall all be changed..this mortal must put on immortality" (1 Corinthians 15: 51,53). "..this same Jesus..shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go" (Acts 1:11). "Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself" (Luke 24:39). "..we shall be like him" (1 John 3:2).

 

22.—What is the difference of nature between a spiritual body and a mortal body?

ANSWER: A mortal body grows old, decays and dies; whereas a spiritual body lasts for ever. A mortal body is weak; a spiritual body is strong. A mortal body is corruptible, lustreless, and dishonorable; whereas a spiritual body is incorruptible, bright, and glorious. Even the clothes worn by a spiritual body can become as white as snow and as shining as the sun.

PROOF: "Neither can they die any more" (Luke 20:36). "So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; It is raised in incorruption: It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in power: It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body" (1 Corinthians 15:42-44). "They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes" (Revelation 7:16,17). "Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord?...I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me" (1 Corinthians 9:1; Acts 26:13). "..and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light" (Matthew 17:2). "His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow" (Matthew 28:3). "..they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint" (Isaiah 40:31). "And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever" (Daniel 12:3).

 

23.—Shall we ever have our mortal bodies changed into spiritual bodies?

ANSWER: All will experience this glorious change who believe, love, and obey the truth steadfastly to the end. They will rise from the dead at the coming of Christ, and appear before him to be judged, along with all others who are at that time brought to judgment. When he has separated them from the unfaithful, the unfaithful will be dismissed from his presence to shame, corruption, and death, while they, the accepted, will be changed in a moment, all in one company, into the likeness of the body of their glorious judge.

PROOF: "...we (i.e. the accepted) shall all be changed" (1 Corinthians 15:51). "For we (i.e. the responsible) must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad" (2 Corinthians 5:10). "For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting" (Galatians 6:8). "...he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you...if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together" (Romans 8:11,17). "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt" (Daniel 12:2). "Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name?...And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity" (Matthew 7:22,23). "Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction  from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power" (2 Thessalonians 1:9).   

 

CONCERNING ANGELS

 

24.—What are angels?

ANSWER: They are glorious beings sent by God on various errands throughout the universe.   

PROOF: "Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word" (Psalm 104:20). "Thou madest him (i.e. man) a little lower than the angels" (Hebrews 2:7). "And there came two angels to Sodom at even" (Genesis 19:1). "...the man (i.e. "the angel Gabriel"  Luke 1:26,11,19) Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation. And he informed me, and talked with me, and said...At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment came forth, and I am come to shew thee" (Daniel 9:21-23). "And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them...And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:9-14). "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him" (Matthew 25:31). "And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands" (Revelation 5:11).

 

25.—What is the nature of the angels?

ANSWER: They are spiritual bodies, and like men in their form and aspect.

PROOF: "Who maketh his angels spirits" (Psalm 104:4). "..some have entertained angels unawares" (Hebrews 13:2)."..the angel of the LORD appeared..Manoah..said..Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am..For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of the LORD..the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar..Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of the LORD" (Judges 13:3,11,16,20,21). "..for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven..a young man..clothed in a long white garment" (Matthew 28:2; Mark 16:5).

 

26.—Are the angels, then, of the same nature as we shall become if we are saved at the resurrection?

ANSWER: Yes, exactly the same. The promise to us is that we shall become equal to them, and die no more.

PROOF: "But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection" (Luke 20:35,36).

 

27.—Have angels ever been seen upon earth?

ANSWER: Yes, many a time. Three appeared to Abraham; two visited Sodom; one wrestled with Jacob, to whom also a host appeared; one led the Israelites out of Egypt; one withstood Balaam; one appeared to Gideon; one to Manoah; one to David; one to Daniel; one destroyed Sennacherib's army; one appeared to the father of John the Baptist; one to the mother of Jesus; one to the shepherds; a multitude sang on the plains of Bethlehem. They appeared also at the resurrection of Christ and at various times to the Apostles after Christ's ascension.

PROOF: Genesis 18:1, 19:1, 32:24, 1 (in connection with Hosea 12:4); Exodus 14:19-24; Numbers 22:22; Judges 6:11, 13:3-16;  2 Samuel 24:16; Daniel 9:21, 10:7-12; 2 Kings 19:35; Luke 1:11-26, 2:9; Matthew 28:2; Luke 24:4; Acts 1:10, 5:19, 12:7-11; Revelation 1:1, 22:16.

 

28.—Have the angels names?

ANSWER: Yes, such as Gabriel; but the name by which they are commonly described in the Bible is simply 'angel'. Sometimes they are spoken of as God.

PROOF: "the angel Gabriel" (Luke 1:26). "Michael the arch-angel" (Jude 9). "And he (i.e. "a man" v24 = "God" v28 = an angel) said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name?" (Genesis 32:29). "..for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved" (Genesis 32:30). "And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying..I am the God of Bethel" (Genesis 31:11,13). "And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him (i.e. Moses,v1,3,4)..Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Abraham" (Exodus 3:2,6; Acts 7:29-33).

 

29.—Why are the angels spoken of as if they were God?

ANSWER: Because they come on God's business and work by His power and are of His nature. His name is in them.

PROOF: See passages proving answers 24 to 26. And "Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. Beware of him, and obey his voice ("all that I speak" v22), provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him" (Exodus 23:20,21).

 

CONCERNING MAN

 

30.—What does the Bible reveal concerning man?

ANSWER: The Bible reveals that man is a living soul or creature, originally made of the dust of the ground, in the image of God.

PROOF: "And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man (i.e. the combination of  body and breath of life) became a living (but not an ever-living) soul" (Genesis 2:7). "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them" (Genesis 1:27). "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return" (Genesis 3:19). "For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust" (Psalm 103:19). "And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes" (Genesis 18:27).

 

31.—Is man an immortal being?

ANSWER: No: he is mortal. He dies and returns to the dust (see above).

PROOF: "But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the spirit, and where is he?..So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep" (Job 14:10,12). "Shall mortal man be more just than God?" (Job 4:17). "For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast: for all is vanity. All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again" (Ecclesiastes 3:19,20). "What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah (i.e. pause and consider)" (Psalm 89:48).

 

32.—Has man an immortal part that lives in death, as held by nearly every religious system on earth?

ANSWER: No: that doctrine is one of the many religious lies that have come to be regarded as truth. Man is wholly mortal. God only has immortality. Immortality is something man has to seek for; it is a matter of promise and hope.

PROOF: "And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die" (Genesis 3:4). "..the Gentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things wherein there is no profit" (Genesis 16:19).

"..the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of Lords; Who only has immortality" (1 Timothy 6:15,16). "..the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God" (1 Timothy 1:17). "To them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, (God will reward with) eternal life" (Romans 2:7). "But now is made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel" (2 Timothy 1:10). "In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began" (Titus 1:2)."And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life" (1 John 2:25).

 

33.—May not man's life be immortal though his body is mortal?

ANSWER: Man's life is not himself. It is the power of God by which he lives, and which returns to God when man dies. If God were to gather it all to Himself, man would perish from the universe.

PROOF: "For with thee is the fountain of life" (Psalm 36:9). "God..giveth to all life, and breath, and all things" (Acts 17:24,25). "In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind" (Job 12:10). "Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it" (Ecclesiastes 12:7). "If he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath; all flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust" (Job 34:14,15). "Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of?" (Isaiah 2:22).

 

34.—Has man, then, no conscious existence in death?

ANSWER: Man has no existence of any kind in death. He is entirely dead, and knows no more than if he had never been born.

PROOF: "For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not anything" (Ecclesiastes 9:5). "For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who shall give thee thanks?" (Psalm 6:5). "..for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest" (Ecclesiastes 9:10). "His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish" (Psalm 146:4). "For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee: they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth. The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day" (Isaiah 38:18,19). "Oh that I had given up the spirit, and no eye had seen me! I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave" (Job 10: 18,19).

 

35.—Why is man in his present mortal and evil state?

ANSWER: Man is mortal because of sin. It is God's law that sinners must die. Adam, our first father, sinned, and was sentenced to death before he had any children. Death began with him, and came to us through him. We receive the nature that he had after he was condemned to die. We thus inherit his sentence of death. Besides this, we are all sinners ourselves.

PROOF: "For the wages of sin is death" (Romans 6:23). "Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed on all men, for that all have sinned" (Romans 5:12). "Because thou hast hearkened to the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee saying, Thou shalt not eat of it..dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return" (Genesis 3:17,19). "..in Adam all die" (1 Corinthians 15:22). "..by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation" (Romans 5:18). "For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God" (Romans 3:23). "But we had the sentence of death in ourselves" (2 Corinthians 1:9). " For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality" (1 Corinthians 15:53). "O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from this body of death?" (Romans 7:24). "..our mortal flesh" (2 Corinthians 4:11).

 

36.—Does God intend that the human race shall always be subject to its present evil state?

ANSWER: No: He purposes to take away sin from the earth altogether, and to cause death to cease.

PROOF: "I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will ransom them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be thy destruction" (Hosea 13:14). "He will swallow up death in victory" Isaiah 25:8. "..and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying" (Revelation 21:4). "The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death" (1 Corinthians 15:26). "Jesus Christ..hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel" (2 Timothy 1:10). "I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell (i.e. the grave) and of death" (Revelation 1:18).

 

37.—Will God bring about this great change without any reference to whether men please Him or not?

ANSWER: No: the work will be thoroughly done in  righteousness. As death came by sin, so life will come by obedience.

PROOF: "For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous" (Romans 5:19). "But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested..even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe" (Romans 3:21,22). "Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God?" (1 Corinthians 6:9)."And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?" (1 Peter 4:18). "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Galatians 6:7). "..except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Matthew 5:20).

 

38.—The Scriptures declare that "there is none righteous, no not one". How then can salvation come, if it is to depend on righteousness?

ANSWER: The state of man, left to himself, is what the Scriptures describe. But God has not left man to himself. He has interposed in his affairs, and opened a way of righteousness in which he invites men to walk. God has brought righteousness near through Jesus Christ, and asks men to lay hold of it by faith in him.

PROOF: "And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and his righteousness, it sustained him" (Isaiah 59:16). "..even so by the righteousness of one (i.e. Jesus Christ, v17) the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life" (Romans 5:18). "But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption" (1 Corinthians 1:30). "For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth" (Romans 10:3,4).

 

39.—How can men who have been sinners lay hold on the righteousness of God in Christ?

ANSWER: Because God calls on them to repent, and offers to forgive their sins if they believe in Jesus and put on his name.

PROOF: "And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men every where to repent" (Acts 17:30). "..through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins" (Acts 13:38). "Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the LORD, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon" (Isaiah 55:7). "Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins" (Acts 2:38). "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:12).

 

40.—Are such saved by faith in Christ alone?

ANSWER: No. Faith justifies from all past sins, and ensures peace with God; but works are requisite to retain His favour and secure acceptance at the last.

PROOF: "Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ" (Romans 5:1). "Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall" (1 Corinthians 10:12). "For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live" (Romans 8:13). "For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning" (2 Peter 2:20). "Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only" (James 2:24). "..repent, and do the first works..I will give unto every one of you according to your works" (Revelation 2:5,23).

 

CONCERNING CHRIST

 

41.—Who was Jesus Christ?

ANSWER: Jesus Christ was the Son of God.

PROOF: "And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matthew 3:17). "I am the Son of God" (John 10:36). "Rabbi, thou are the Son of God" (John 1:49). "Truly this man was the Son of God" (Mark 15:39). "And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God" (John 1:34).

 

42.—Was Jesus Christ a man, as well as the Son of God?

ANSWER: Yes, he was a man also, made in all things like unto ourselves, yet without sin.

PROOF: "Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know" (Acts 2:22). "For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus" (1 Timothy 2:5). "..through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins" (Acts 13:38). "Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren" (Hebrews 2:17).

 

43.—How was Jesus Christ both man and the Son of God?

ANSWER: Because he was begotten of a human virgin-mother by the power of the Spirit of God, and not by a human father. Mary, a damsel descended from David, and betrothed  to Joseph, also a descendant of David, was his mother; and God was his Father. So that on his Father's side he was the Son of God, and on his mother's side he was the son of David, and, therefore, a man partaking of David's nature, which was the nature common to all.

PROOF: "Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife; for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit" (Matthew 1:20). "The Holy Spirit shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God" (Luke 1:35). "Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham" (Matthew 1:1). "God sent forth his Son, made of a woman" (Galatians 4:4). "And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death" (Philippians 2:8). "For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin" (Hebrews 4:15).

 

44.—Was Jesus both divine and human then?

ANSWER: He was human as to the substance of which he was made; but divine as to the source from which he came, the spirit from which he derived his wisdom, and the pattern of the character which he possessed.

PROOF: "Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same" (Hebrews 2:14). "I am the living bread which came down from heaven" (John 6:51). "And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him" (Luke 2:40). "And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth" (John 1:14).

 

45.—Was there a connection between Jesus and the Father that does not exist between God and other men?

ANSWER: Yes. Jesus and the Father were one by the spirit, which, proceeding from the Father, embraced them both. God was thus in Christ, and Christ was thus the manifestation of God: which things cannot be said of any other man.

PROOF: "I and my Father are one" (John 10:30). "..he that hath seen me hath seen the Father..the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works" (John 14:9,10). "God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself" (2 Corinthians 5:19). "God was manifest in the flesh" (1 Timothy 3:16).

 

46.—Was Jesus God, co-equally and co-eternally with the Father, as "trinitarianism" teaches?

ANSWER: The man Christ Jesus, begotten of the Father and endowed immeasurably with His spirit, was distinct from the Father, though one with him in the sense expressed in the last answer. But as to co-equality and co-eternity, these are ideas that owe their existence to the speculations and disputations of Church theologians in the third and fourth centuries. They do not belong to the New Testament system of doctrine concerning Christ. This system teaches that the God of Christ was the Father, who fills heaven and earth by His spirit. Christ disowned co-equality with the Father; and co-eternity is impossible in a son.

PROOF: The passages quoted under answers 41 to 45, and also the following:

"I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me" (John 8:18). "I am in the Father, and the Father in me..I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I" (John 14:11,28). "My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all: and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand" (John 10:29). "The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do..I can of mine own self do nothing..I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me" (John 5:19,30). "..and the head of Christ is God" (1 Corinthians 11:3). "And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all" (1 Corinthians 15:28).

 

CONCERNING THE NAME OF JESUS

 

47.—Why was Jesus Christ called by that name?

ANSWER: To show who he was and what was his mission.

PROOF: "And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins" (Matthew 1:21).

 

48.—In what way does his name show this?

ANSWER: First by Jesus, which is a name of Hebrew origin, signifying God shall save; and then by Christ, which is a Greek word, meaning anointed.

PROOF: See passage proving answer 47. And "..they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us" (Matthew 1:23). "The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed" (Psalm 2:2). "For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, were gathered together" (Acts 4:27).

 

49.—What is anointing?

ANSWER: It is the ceremony by which kings and priests were by divine appointment consecrated to their office. It consisted in putting holy oil on their heads.

PROOF: "Then shalt thou (i.e. Moses) take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his (i.e. Aaron's) head, and anoint him..and the priest's office shall be their's for a perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons" (Exodus 29:7,9). "..and thou (i.e. Samuel)shalt anoint him (i.e. Saul) to be captain over my people Israel..Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head..Is it not because the LORD hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?" (1 Samuel 9:16: 10:1). "And the LORD said unto Samuel, fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Beth-lehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons..thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee..Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him (i.e. David) in the midst of his brethren" ((1 Samuel 16:1,3,13).

 

50.—Was Christ anointed with oil?

ANSWER: No: he was anointed with that of which the oil of ancient custom was but a type. He was anointed with the spirit of God at his baptism in the Jordan.

PROOF: "How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power: who went about doing good..for God was with him" (Acts 10:38). "Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended in a bodily shape like dove upon him" (Luke 3:21,22).

 

51.—Then a man bearing the name of Jesus Christ would be pointed out by that name as the man through whom God, by the anointing Spirit, would save men—from what?

ANSWER: From their sins.

PROOF: see passage proving answer 47.

 

52.—In what way does God save men from their sins by Christ?

ANSWER: He forgives them for Christ's sake, and by the power of his teaching. He turns men away from their sins, and leads them to righteousness.

PROOF: "God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you" (Ephesians 4:32). "In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins" (Colossians 1:14). "..your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake" (1 John 2:12). "God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities" (Acts 3:26)

 

53.—Why for Christ's sake, does God forgive?

ANSWER: Because of what has been accomplished in him.

PROOF: "..because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors" (Isaiah 53:12).

 

54.—What has been accomplished in Christ?

ANSWER: Sin has been condemned in his death on the cross, and the righteousness of God has been declared and exhibited to all the world in the shedding of his blood.

PROOF: "For in that he died, he died unto sin once" (Romans 6:10). "Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree" (1 Peter 2:24). "For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin (i.e. by a sacrifice for sin), condemned sin in the flesh" (Romans 8:3). "Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation    (i.e. a mercy-seat) through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God; to declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus" (Romans 3:25,26).

 

55.—How could sin be condemned in Christ who was sinless? And how could the righteousness of God be declared in the blood-shedding of a righteous man?

ANSWER: Because being born of Adam's condemned race, and partaking of their condemned nature, Christ was made subject, equally with them, to the consequences of Adam's transgression. Therefore his public execution was a public exhibition of what was due to a man from God. It pleased God to require this, before inviting men to reconciliation through the man in whom this vindication should take place.

PROOF: "Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil (or sin in the flesh)". "God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin (i.e. by a sacrifice for sin), condemned sin in the flesh". (Hebrews 2:14; Romans 8:3). "..he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself" (Hebrews 9:26). "..Jesus Christ our Lord..was made of the seed of David according to the flesh" (Romans 1:3). "..death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once" (Romans 6:9,10).

 

56.—Where did Jesus differ in this matter from other men?

ANSWER: Where Jesus in this matter differed from other men was, in the spotlessness of his personal character, on account of which the Father was well pleased. Jesus required no forgiveness. It was this that opened the way for his resurrection. For had he been a sinner as other men, death must have held the power over him that it had over them. But God raised him from the dead after sin had been condemned in his crucifixion, and being raised from the dead, "death hath no more dominion over him". "Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them". In this way he has become the righteousness of God to us.

PROOF: above quotations Romans 6:9 and Hebrews 7:25. And "For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens" (Hebrews 7:26). "..in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin" (Hebrews 4:15). "Which of you convinceth me of sin?" (John 8:46). "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matthew 3:17). "And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin" (1 John 3:5). "..it was not possible that he should be holden of it (i.e. death)..neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption" (Acts 2:24,27).

 

57.—What are we to understand by the statement of Paul quoted in proof of the answer to Question 55 that Jesus died that through death he might destroy him that hath the power of death, that is, the devil? Who is the devil?

ANSWER: The devil, or Satan,  is the Bible name for sin in its various forms among men. "Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil". "God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin (i.e. by a sacrifice for sin), condemned sin in the flesh". "Christ..put away sin by the sacrifice of himself". Sin is the death-power. There is no such being as the personal immortal devil of popular belief. The belief in such a being is due to the misunderstanding of certain figures and symbols in the Bible. The Bible devil has many shapes; but all these have their origin in the insubordination of flesh and blood to Divine law. He presents himself in our own feelings, and in the persons of those who would draw us into wrong ways. In his largest shape, he exists in the present political constitution of things upon the earth.

PROOF: Hebrews 2:9,14; Romans 6:23, 8:3; Hebrews 9:24,26; James 1:14,15, 4:7; Hebrews 12:4; John 13:27, 6:70; Acts 5:3-9; Ephesians 2:2; 1 Timothy 5:14,15, 1:20; Matthew 16:23; Mark 8:33; Luke 4:8; 1 Thessalonians 2:18; Revelation 2:12,13; 1 Peter 5:8; Revelation 2:10; Romans 16:20; Revelation 12:3,17, 17:9,12, 20:2.

 

CONCERNING THE WAY OF SALVATION

 

58.—Is it possible for us to be saved apart from this work of Christ?

ANSWER: No: God has provided no other way of salvation for man than Jesus Christ.

PROOF: "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:12). "Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me" (John 14:6). "..for if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins" (John 8:24). "Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you" (John 6:53). "..for without me ye can do nothing" (John 15:5). "That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ" (Ephesians 2:12,13).

 

59.—In what way are we brought into connection with the work of salvation accomplished in Christ?

ANSWER: By faith in it. Our faith is counted for righteousness.

PROOF: "Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness..now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him; but for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised  up Jesus our Lord from the dead" (Romans 4:3,23,24). "Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ" (Romans 5:1). "Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe" (Romans 3:22).

 

60.—Is faith by itself enough to secure for us the benefit of the work of Christ?

ANSWER: No: there must be obedience, or "works" also.

PROOF: "But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had offered his son Isaac upon the altar? Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?" (James 2:20-22). "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven" (Matthew 7:21)."For the Son of man..shall reward every man according to his works"

(Matthew 16:27). "..and I will give unto every one of you according to your works" (Revelation 2:23).

"Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you" (Matthew 28:20).

 

61.—What "works" are those who believe commanded to do?

ANSWER: There are many things they have been commanded to do. First, they are commanded to be baptized.

PROOF: "And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord" (Acts 10:48). "..arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord" (Acts 22:16). "Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins" (Acts 2:38). "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved" (Mark 16:16).

 

62.—What is baptism?

ANSWER: Burial in water.

PROOF: "Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized..?" (Acts 10:47). "Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death..we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection" (Romans 6:4,5). "Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God" (Colossians 2:12).

 

63.—What does baptism do for us?

ANSWER: It is the act that God has appointed, by which a believer puts on Christ and receives the remission of his sins.

PROOF: "For as many of you who have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ" (Galatians 3:27). "..so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ" (Romans 6:3). "Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins" (Acts 2:38). "And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord" (Acts 22:16). "The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us" (1 Peter 3:21).

 

CONCERNING THE COMMANDMENTS OF CHRIST

 

64.—What other commandments has Christ delivered for our observance?

ANSWER: He has commanded us to assemble ourselves together on every first day of the week to break bread and drink wine in remembrance of him.

PROOF: "For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread: and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me. After the same manner he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me" (1 Corinthians 11:23-25). "And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread" (Acts 20:7). "Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together" (Hebrews 10:25). "Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store" (1 Corinthians 16:2).

 

65.—Are there other commandments that we must obey?

ANSWER: Yes; many. Some of these commandments tell us what we are to do, and others tell us what we are not to do.

 

66.—Recite a few of the things we are to do?

ANSWER: (1) We are to love God and Christ (2) to do to men as we would that they should do to us (3) to love one another (4) to sympathize with men in their joys and sorrows (5) to love even our enemies, blessing those who curse us, doing good to those who hate us, and praying for those who badly use us (6) to be ready to every good work, giving to those who ask, relieving the afflicted (7) to be faithful even to bad masters (8) to pray always and in everything give thanks (9) to speak the truth always (10) to be blameless and harmless (11) to be humble, brave, courteous and manly (12) to follow after whatsoever things are true, honest, pure, just, lovely and of good report.

PROOF: (1) Matthew 22:37; Luke 10:27 (2) Matthew 7:12 (3) John 13:34 (4) Romans 12:15 (5) Luke 6:27,28; 1 Peter 3:9; Matthew 5:44 (6) Titus 3:1; Matthew 5:43; Romans 12:13 (7) 1 Timothy 6:1,2 (8) Luke 18:1; Ephesians 5:20 (9) Ephesians 4:25 (10)  Philippians 2:15 (11) Luke 14:11-13; Philippians 4:4; 1 Thessalonians 5:8-10 (12) Philippians 4:8.

 

67.—Can you enumerate some of the things we are not to do?

ANSWER: (1) We are not to be masterful and lordly; (2) we are not to return evil for evil; (3) we are not to avenge ourselves, but rather give place to wrath, and suffer ourselves to be defrauded; (4) we are not to do our alms before men, or let our left hand know what our right hand doeth; (5) we are not to labour to be rich or to love the world; (6) we are not to return cursing for cursing, or railing for railing, but contrariwise, blessing; (7) we are not to grudge, judge, complain, or condemn; (8) we are not to give way to anger, wrath, bitterness, or evil speaking; (9) we are not to conform to the world or to be ambitious after higher things; (10) we are not to be slack in paying our debts; (11) we are not to backbite or speak of other men's sins until we have spoken to themselves first; (12) we are not to be guilty of adultery, fornication, uncleanness, drunkenness, covetousness, wrath, strife, sedition, hatred, emulation, boasting, vainglory, envy, jesting or foolish talking.

PROOF: (1) Matthew 23:11; John 13:13-17. (2) Romans 12:17. (3) Romans 12:19,20. (4) Matthew 6:1-4. (5) 1 Timothy 6:8. (6) 1 Peter 3:9. (7) James 4:11; Matthew 7:1; Philippians 2:14. (8) Ephesians 4:31; 1 Peter 2:1. (9) Romans 12:2,16. (10) Romans 13:7,8. (11) Matthew 8:15; James 5:19,20. (12) Ephesians 5:3,4.

 

68.—Will the gospel save us if we are disobedient to those commandments?

ANSWER: No: our belief of the Gospel and baptism will only be to our condemnation if we live in disobedience to the commandments of Christ. Only those who do his commandments will at last be among the blessed.

PROOF: "Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city" (Revelation 22:14). "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it" (Matthew 7:26,27). "For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them" (2 Peter 2:21).

 

69.—Is there forgiveness for those who, having submitted to the Gospel, may fail in rendering a perfect obedience to the commandments of Christ?

ANSWER: Yes, if there were not, no flesh could be saved. But forgiveness is conditional on our confessing and forsaking our sins; and also on our being forgiving to others; and forgiveness is only granted at the intercession of Christ. If we are unforgiving, or if he refuses to intercede, there is no hope for us.

PROOF: "If thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared" (Psalm 130:3,4). "But if we walk in the light..the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin" (1 John 1:7). "And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous" (1 John 2:1). "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins" (1 John 1:9). "..he ever liveth to make intercession for them" (Hebrews 7:25). "It is Christ..who also maketh intercession for us" (Romans 8:34). "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses" (John 6:15).

 

CONCERNING FAITH AND THE GOSPEL

 

70.—You have said that our faith is counted to us for righteousness when we obey the truth in baptism. What is faith?

ANSWER: It is the act of mind by which we believe or have confidence in professions or promises that may be made.

PROOF: "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Hebrews 11:1). "So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God" (Romans 10:17). "He (i.e. Abraham) staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God" (Romans 4:20). "Abraham believed God, and..faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness" (Romans 4:3,9).

 

71.—What is it that we are invited to believe or place confidence in before our baptism?

ANSWER: In the gospel.

PROOF: "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved" (Mark 16:15,16). "For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth"

(Romans 1:16). "And they..returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel" (Acts 8:25).

 

72.—What is the Gospel?

ANSWER: The word "gospel" means good news or glad tidings; and the glad tidings announced by Christ and the Apostles are "the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ".

PROOF: "..he (i.e. Jesus) went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of  God" (Luke 8:1). "And he (i.e. Jesus) said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent" (Luke 4:43). "But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women" (Acts 8:12). "..ye all, among whom I (i.e. Paul) have gone preaching the kingdom of God" (Acts 20: 25). "And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him, preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him" (Acts 28:30,31).

 

CONCERNING THE KINGDOM OF GOD

 

73.—What is the Kingdom of God?

ANSWER: It is a kingdom that God will set up on earth which will overthrow and take possession of all others.

PROOF: "And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed..it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever" (Daniel 2:44). "And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the kingdoms of the heathen" (Haggai 2:22). "I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of man..and there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed" (Daniel 7:13,14). "And the LORD shall be king over all the earth: in that day shall there be one LORD, and his name one" (Zechariah 14:9). "And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever" (Revelation 11:15).

 

74.—Who will be king in the Kingdom of God?

ANSWER: Jesus Christ.

PROOF: "..and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, one Jesus" (Acts 17:7). "Because he (i.e. God) hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained" (Acts 17:31). "Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion..Thou art my Son..I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession" (Psalm 2: 6-8). "And the LORD shall reign over them in mount Zion from henceforth, even for ever" (Micah 4:7). "..and the Lord God shall give unto him (i.e. Jesus) the throne of his father David..and of his kingdom there shall be no end" (Luke 1:32,33). "The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever" (Revelation 11:15).

 

75.—Will Christ reign alone in the Kingdom of God, or will others reign with him?

ANSWER: Others will reign with him.

PROOF: "If we suffer, we shall also reign with him" (2 Timothy 2:12). "Thou..hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth" (Revelation 5:9,10). "And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years..they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years" (Revelation 20:4,6). "Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment" (Isaiah 32:1). "Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth" (Matthew 5:5). "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world" (Matthew 25:34).

 

76.—Who are they that will reign with Christ in the Kingdom of God?

ANSWER: The saints.

PROOF: "But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and possess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever..and judgment was given to the saints of the most High; and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom" (Daniel 7:18,22). "Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world?" (1 Corinthians 6:2). "To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people; to bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron; this honour have all his saints" (Psalm 149:7-9).

 

77.—Who are the saints?

ANSWER: Those who believe and obey the gospel.

PROOF: "To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints" (Romans 1:7). "Unto the ecclesia of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints" (1 Corinthians 1:2). "..to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus" (Ephesians 1:1). " I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world" (John 17:14).

 

78.—Did God ever have a kingdom on earth before?

ANSWER: Yes. The Kingdom of Israel was the Kingdom of God.

PROOF: "For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the nations" (Psalm 22:28). "When Israel went out of Egypt..Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion" (Psalm 114:1,2). "And now think ye to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David" (2 Chronicles 13:8). "Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of David his father" (1 Chronicles 29:23).


  79.—Will the Kingdom of God, in which Christ and the saints will reign, have any relation to the Divine Kingdom of 

    Israel that existed in the past?

   ANSWER: The Kingdom of God, in which Christ and the saints will reign, will be the Kingdom of Israel restored.

   PROOF: "Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?" (Acts 1:6). "And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and

   thy counsellors as at the beginning" (Isaiah 1:26). "In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen,and close up the

   breaches thereof; and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old" (Amos 9:11). "And thou, profane wicked

   prince of Israel..remove the diadem, and take off the crown..I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: and it shall be no more, until he

   come whose right it is; and I will give it him" (Ezekiel 21:25-27). "thou shalt call his name JESUS..and the Lord God shall give

   unto him the throne of his father David" (Luke 1:31,32). "..in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his

   glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel" (Matthew 19:28).

 

   80.—Will the restored Kingdom of Israel occupy the same land that it was established in before?

   ANSWER: Yes, it will be re-established in the very same land where David reigned and where Christ was crucified.

   PROOF: "And the desolate land shall be tilled..and they shall say, this land that was desolate is become like the garden of

   Eden" (Ezekiel 36:34,35). "Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate" (Isaiah

   62:4). "Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, so that no man went through thee, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy

   of many generations" (Isaiah 60:15). "And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall

   repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations" (Isaiah 61:4). "And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the

   inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication: and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced..in that day 

   shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem" (Zechariah 12:10,11). "But in the last days..the law shall go forth of Zion, and the

   word of the LORD from Jerusalem" (Malachi 4:1,2).

 

   81.—Will the Kingdom be composed of the same nation that it formerly consisted of, namely, the Jews who are now

   scattered?

   ANSWER: Yes, the Jews, the descendants of Abraham now dispersed in all countries of the world, will be gathered to their own

   land, and made there a great and righteous nation.

   PROOF: "And he..shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the

   earth" (Isaiah 11:12). "He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock" (Jeremiah 31:10). "Thus

   sayeth the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country, and I will bring them,

   and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness"

   (Zechariah 8:7,8). "Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone, and will gather them on

   every side, and bring them into their own land: and I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; and one

   king shall be king to them all: and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at

   all" (Ezekiel 37:21,22).

 

  CONCERNING ABRAHAM, ISAAC AND JACOB

 

  82.—Who was Abraham?

  ANSWER: Originally he was a dweller in the land of the Chaldeans, on the eastern side of the river Euphrates, but when he was 75

  years old, he left his friends and removed to Canaan.

  PROOF: "And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood (i.e. the Euphrates), and led him throughout all the land

  of Canaan" (Joshua 24:3). "Thou art the LORD the God, who didst choose Abram, and broughtest him forth out of Ur of the

  Chaldees, and gavest him the name of Abraham" (Nehemiah 9:7). "Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in

  Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein ye now dwell" (Acts 7:4).

 

  83.—Why did Abraham remove to Canaan?

  ANSWER: Because God commanded him to do so.

  PROOF: "The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran, and said

  unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee" (Acts 7:2,3). "Now the

  LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will

  shew thee" (Genesis 12:1).

 

  84.—Why did God command Abraham to remove to Canaan?

  ANSWER: Because of the purpose God had formed concerning him and all the earth.

  PROOF: "For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the

  LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him" (Genesis 18:19). "I

  called him (i.e. Abraham) alone, and blessed him, and increased him. For the LORD shall comfort Zion..joy and gladness  shall be

  found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody..the isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm shall they trust" (Isaiah

  51:2,3,5). "But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend..this people have I formed

  for myself; they shall shew forth my praise" (Isaiah 41:8; 43:21).

 

  85.—What was the purpose God had formed?

  ANSWER: To make of Abraham a great nation for the glory of God and the blessing of all mankind at last.

  PROOF: "And I will make of thee (i.e. Abram, later named Abraham) a great nation..and in thee shall all nations be blessed"

  (Genesis 12:2,3). "But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD" (Numbers 14:21). "I have sworn by

  myself, the word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, that unto me every knee shall bow, every tongue

  shall swear" (Isaiah 45:23).

 

  86.—Did God make known this purpose to anyone else other than Abraham?

  ANSWER: Yes, to Abraham's son, Isaac, and to Isaac's son, Jacob.

  PROOF: "And the LORD appeared unto him (i.e. Isaac), and said..in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed" (Genesis

  26:2,4). "..and in thee (i.e. Jacob) and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed" (Genesis 28:14). "He hath

  remembered his covenant for ever..which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac; and confirmed the same unto

  Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant: saying, unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your

  inheritance" (Psalm 105:8-11). "By faith Abraham..sojourned in the land of promise..dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob,

  the heirs with him of the same promise" (Hebrews 11:8,9).

 

  87.—How did God lay the foundation of His work with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob?

  ANSWER: He made a covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, wherein they were strangers, for an everlasting

  possession.

  PROOF: "For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever" (Genesis 13:15). "In the same day the

  LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the

  river Euphrates" (Genesis 15:18). "Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac; and confirmed the same unto

  Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant: Saying, unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your

  inheritance" (Psalm 105:8-11). "..for unto thee (i.e. Isaac), and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries" (Genesis 26:3). "..the

  land whereon thou (i.e. Jacob) liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed" (Genesis 28:13).

 

  88.—Did Abraham, Isaac and Jacob receive possession of the land of Canaan thus promised to them?

  ANSWER: No; they were strangers in the land of promise during their lifetime and died (and were all three buried at Hebron)

  without receiving it.

  PROOF: "By faith he (i.e. Abraham) sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac

  and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise" (Hebrews 11:9). "These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but

  having seen them afar off, and were persuaded them, and  embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on

  the earth..and these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise: God having provided some better

  thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect" (Hebrews 11:13,39,40). "And he (i.e. God) gave him (i.e. Abraham)

  none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his

  seed after him" (Acts 7:5).

 

  89.—Will God fulfil His promise to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob by giving them the land of Canaan forever, wherein they

  dwelt as strangers  during their mortal days?

  ANSWER: God will certainly fulfil His promise. He will raise Abraham, Isaac and Jacob from the dead, and give them possession

  of the land, when the Kingdom of God having been established there, it will have become a heavenly country.

  PROOF: "Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of

  old" (Micah7:20). "And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto

  him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? He is not the God of the dead, but the God of

  the living: ye therefore do greatly err" (Mark 12:26,27). "..ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the

  kingdom of God" (Luke 13:28). "And I say unto you, that many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with

  Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven" (Matthew 8:11).

 

  CONCERNING ISRAEL'S DELIVERANCE FROM EGYPT

 

  90.—After having established the covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, what next did God do in preparation for the

  carrying out of His purpose?

  ANSWER: He sent Jacob's family down into Egypt, where in process of time they grew numerous, and were enslaved by Pharaoh,

  who used them as makers of brick for the building of cities.

  PROOF: Genesis 35 to 50; Exodus 1 and 2.

 

  91.—How long were they in Egypt?

  ANSWER: Some hundreds of years.

  PROOF: Genesis 15:13-16; Exodus 12:40,41; Acts 7:6,7; Galatians 3:17.

 

  92.—How did they get away from Egypt?

  ANSWER: God sent Moses to Pharaoh to demand their release, and when Pharaoh refused to let them go, God sent plagues into the

  land, one after the other, to the number of ten, and at the last, Pharaoh was glad to let them go.

  PROOF: Exodus 3 to 12.

 

  93.—Did they go straight to the land of promise?

  ANSWER: No; God led them to the west side of the Red Sea, where they were brought into great danger. Pharaoh had changed his

  mind about letting them go. And hearing that they were in a place where they could not get away, he came out with a great army to

  catch them, and to take them back again into Egypt.

  PROOF: Exodus 12 to 14.

 

  94.—What did God do to release His people from the strait they were in?

  ANSWER: He opened a way in the sea for Israel to pass through. Israel got safely to the other side, and when the Egyptians

  followed them, God brought the sea upon the Egyptians and drowned them all.

  PROOF: Exodus 14.

 

  95.—For what purpose did God perform all these wonderful works?

  ANSWER: That He might make His existence and power known to Israel and to all the earth.

  PROOF: "Or hath God assayed to go and take him a nation from the midst of another nation..according to all that the LORD your

  God did for you in Egypt before your eyes? Unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know that the LORD he is God; there is

  none else beside him" (Deuteronomy 4:34,35). "Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty

  power to be known" (Psalm 106:8). "In the day that I lifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land of Egypt into a

  land that I had espied for them..I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted before the heathen, among whom they

  were, in whose sight I made myself known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt" (Ezekiel 20:6,9). "And the

  LORD said unto Moses, go in unto Pharaoh: for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shew these my

  signs before him..that ye may know how that I am the LORD" (Exodus 10:1,2). "And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee

  (i.e. Pharaoh) up, for to shew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth" (Exodus 9:16). "..to

  the end thou mayest know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth" (Exodus 8:22).

 

  96.—When Israel had crossed the Red Sea, what did God next do with them?

  ANSWER: He led them to the wilderness of Sinai among great and barren mountains, and shewed His presence in a visible manner

  before them by descending to the top of Sinai in the midst of dense cloud, smoke, and earthquake; and speaking to them with a loud

  voice which they all heard.

  PROOF: Exodus 19:16-20; Deuteronomy 4:10-12; 5:4.

 

  97.—Why did He do that?

  ANSWER: That the people might fear God, and believe in Moses as His prophet, and be prepared to obey the law which  God

  purposed to give them through him.

  PROOF: "And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee,

  and believe thee for ever" (Exodus 19:9). "..the LORD said unto me (i.e. Moses), gather me the people together, and I will make

  them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they shall live upon the earth, and that they may teach their

  children" (Deuteronomy 4:10).

 

  98.—What did God say in the hearing of the children of Israel?

  ANSWER: He recited the ten commandments.

  PROOF: "And the LORD spake unto you out of the midst of the fire: ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude; only

  ye heard a voice. And he declared unto you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even ten commandments; and he

  wrote them upon two tables of stone" (Deuteronomy 4:12,13).

 

  99.—Did He deliver a law to them besides the ten commandments?

  ANSWER: Yes, He spoke to Moses many other things which Moses spoke to the people.

  PROOF: "And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that ye might do them in the land

  whither ye go over to possess it" (Deuteronomy 4:14).

 

  100.—Did God make a covenant with the people about these things?

  ANSWER: Yes; God offered to bless them with many blessings if they would obey the law that he would give them, and the people

  promised to do all that the Lord would command. Then the Lord gave the law, and Moses wrote it in a book, and read it to the

  people. He then sprinkled the book and the people with the blood of sacrifices, and thus a covenant was established between God

  and the people.

  PROOF: "And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with

  one voice, and said, all the words which the LORD hath said will we do. And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD..and he took

  the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and be

  obedient. And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD

  hath made with you concerning all these words" (Exodus 24:3,4,7,8) and see Hebrews 9:19-21.

 

  101.—What is this covenant called in the Scriptures?

  ANSWER: It is called the first, or the old covenant.

  PROOF: "For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second..he saith, Behold, the

  days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant..In that he saith, a new covenant, he hath made the first old" (Hebrews

  8: 7,8,13).

 

  102.—Why is it called the first or the old covenant, seeing there was a covenant before it, namely, the covenant made with

  Abraham, spoken of in Question 86?

  ANSWER: Because, although the covenant of the law of Moses was the last to be given, it was the first to come into force. It was

  the law of Israel's national life for many hundreds of years before the confirmation of the covenant made with Abraham by the

  shedding of the blood of Christ.

  PROOF: Galatians 3:17-19; Romans 15:8; Luke 22:20; 1 Corinthians 11:24-26.

 

  CONCERNING ISRAEL IN THE WILDERNESS

 

  103.—What happened after the giving of the law to Israel, and the establishment in their midst of all things pertaining to it?

  ANSWER: God commanded Israel to march and to enter the land of Canaan and to subdue the nations that were there.

  PROOF: Numbers 13:1-20; Deuteronomy 1:19-21.

 

  104.—Did they do as they were commanded?

  ANSWER: They meant to do it, but when they discovered that the nations of Canaan were strong, they were afraid, and made up

  their minds not to obey. They threatened to kill Moses, and to set up another captain over them, and to return back into Egypt.

  PROOF: Numbers 13:21-33; 14:1-10; Deuteronomy 1:22-33.

 

  105.—What did God do to them for this disobedience?

  ANSWER: Having showed His glory visibly in the camp, He ordered the whole congregation to go back into the wilderness, and

  there to remain for 40 years until the disobedient adults were all dead.

  PROOF: Numbers 14:10-39; Deuteronomy 1:34-40.

 

  106.—What happened at the end of the forty years?

  ANSWER: At the end of the forty years, the Israelites came to Canaan from the east side of the river Jordan. When the nations on

  that side had been conquered, Moses died according to the word of the Lord. Joshua had been appointed by God to lead His people,

  and he led them across the Jordan, and conquered the nations on the west side of the river. Some time later Joshua died.

  PROOF: Deuteronomy 2,3,34; Joshua 1-24.

 

  107.—Was it wicked for Israel to make war upon the Canaanitish nations?

  ANSWER: No. The Canaanitish nations were sunk in wickedness, and God had commanded Israel to execute judgment upon them.

  It would have been wickedness if they had not done it. Israel was commanded not to adopt the evil ways and gods of these nations.

  PROOF: Leviticus 18:24-30; Deuteronomy 9:1-5; 12:1-3;28-32.

 

  CONCERNING RIGHT AND WRONG

 

  108.—What is wickedness? What is righteousness?

  ANSWER: That is wicked which God forbids; and that is righteous which God commands.

  PROOF: "What thing soever I command you, observe to do it: thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it" (Deuteronomy

  12:32). "And Samuel said, Hath the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD?

  Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of lambs" (1 Samuel 15:22). "..sin is the transgression of the law"

  (1 John 3:4). "For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners,so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous"

  (Romans 5:19).

 

  109.—Since God has said "Thou shalt not kill", was it not wicked to kill the Canaanites?

  ANSWER: No, because God commanded Israel to kill the Canaanites. There is a time to kill, and a time to keep alive. God knows

  the one thing and the other, and when He commands, man has nothing to do but obey. God can do as He pleases, and none can call

  Him in question. But He is always righteous. The Canaanites were very evil. 

  PROOF: The passages quoted in answer 107, also the following: "..thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroy them; thou shalt make

  no covenant with them, nor shew mercy unto them..thou shalt save nothing alive that breatheth" (Deuteronomy 7:2; 20:16). "To

  every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven..a time to kill, and a time to heal" (Ecclesiastes 3:1,3).

  "..and cursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood"(when the Lord commands, see 1 Samuel 15:1-3,7-33) Jeremiah 48:10.

  "And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the

  inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?" Daniel 4:35. "Whatsoever the LORD

  pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places" (Psalm 135:6).

 

  CONCERNING ISRAEL UNDER THE JUDGES

 

  110.—When Israel, under Joshua, had destroyed the seven nations of Canaan, what did they do with their land?

  ANSWER: They divided it amongst themselves by lot, and settled down in it according to the laws God had given them by Moses.

  PROOF: Joshua 18:1-10; Psalm 105: 43-45.

 

  111.—Did they continue obedient to these laws?

  ANSWER: Yes, so long as Joshua was alive and the old men who outlived him. After that, they turned away from the law of

  Moses, and began to do as the Canaanites did who still lived near them. They forsook the worship of God and worshipped idols. 

  PROOF: Judges 2:6-13; Psalm 106:34-39.

 

  112.—What was the consequence of their turning away from the law of Moses?

  ANSWER: God brought them into great trouble by allowing the neighbouring nations to get the upper hand of them, and drive them

  out of their houses, and take possession of their goods and lands.

  PROOF: Judges 2:14,15; Psalm 106:40-43.

 

  113.—Did these troubles destroy Israel?

  ANSWER: No. When they got into trouble, they repented of their disobedience, and cried to God; and time after time, during a

  period of 450 years, God raised them up judges who delivered them.

  PROOF: Judges 2:16-23; Acts 13:19,20.

 

  114.—Can you name the judges He so raised up?

  ANSWER: Othniel, Ehud, Deborah, Gideon, Abimelech, Tola, Jair, Jephthah, Ibzan, Elon, Abdon, Samson, Eli, and Samuel. These

  judges, though coming one after the other, did not all succeed each other in an unbroken line. There were intervals during which

  Israel was oppressed by neighbouring kings.

  PROOF: The book of Judges and 1 Samuel 1 to 3.

 

  CONCERNING ISRAEL BECOMING A KINGDOM

 

  115.—What change took place in the days of the last of these judges?

  ANSWER: Israel desired a king that they might be like the other nations. They came to Samuel and asked him to appoint them a

  king.

  PROOF: 1 Samuel 8:1-5.

 

  116.—Did Samuel comply with their wishes?

  ANSWER: God told Samuel to do as they wished; and Samuel anointed Saul, son of Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin, to be their king.

  PROOF: 1 Samuel 8:6-9; 9 and 10.

 

  117.—Did Saul prove to be a good king?

  ANSWER: No, he several times disobeyed God in important matters that he had been commanded to do.

  PROOF: 1 Samuel 13:13, 15:19; 1 Chronicles 10:13.

 

  118.—What was the consequence of Saul's disobedience?

  ANSWER: God rejected him from being king, and appointed David, the son of Jesse, of the tribe of Judah, in his place.

  PROOF: 1 Samuel 13:13,14; 15:26-29; 28:16-18.

 

  119.—Was David a good king?

  ANSWER: Yes, he was a man after God's own heart. All his life he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, except in one notable

  instance, but he repented for this sin, and God forgave him.

  PROOF: 1 Samuel 13:14; Acts 13:22; Psalm 51; 1 Kings 15:5.

 

  120.—How many kings came after him in succession, sitting upon his throne? and what were their names?

  ANSWER: There were twenty kings after David, all lineally descended from him, and all sitting on his throne. the names were:

  Solomon, Rehoboam, Abijah, Asa, Jehoshaphat, Joram, Ahaziah, Joash, Amaziah, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh, 

  Amon, Josiah, Jehoahaz, Jehoiakim, Jehoiachin and Zedekiah.

  PROOF: The books of the Kings and Chronicles.

 

  CONCERNING THE DIVISION OF THE KINGDOM INTO TWO PARTS

 

  121.—Did the kings, whom we have just enumerated, reign over the twelve tribes of Israel, as David did?

  ANSWER: Solomon did so; but after his death, as a punishment for his sins, ten tribes revolted from the government of David's

  house, and set up a king of their own. He was Jereboam, the son of Nebat, who established a separate kingdom in the northern part

  of Palestine, consisting of the ten tribes. This was ordained by God.

  PROOF: 1 Kings 4:1; 11:1-13; 26-43;12:1-17.

 

  122.—Of what tribes did the northern kingdom consist?

  ANSWER: Of the tribes of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, Zebulun, Naphtali, Asher, Dan, Gad, Simeon and Reuben.

  PROOF: 1 Kings 11:29-35 and various references.

 

  123.—What was the northern kingdom called?

  ANSWER: The kingdom of Israel. It was also frequently spoken of  by the prophets as "Ephraim" (from the leading tribe).

  PROOF: The books of the Kings and the prophet Hosea etc.

 

  124.—Was the kingdom of Israel ruled by the law of Moses as when David and Solomon reigned over all of the nation?

  ANSWER: No. Jeroboam abandoned the law of Moses and led the ten tribes into idolatry, from which they never departed.

  PROOF: 1 Kings 12:25-30.

 

  125.—How many kings reigned over the kingdom of Israel after Jeroboam, and what were their names?

  ANSWER: The number was 18. They were Nadab, Baasha, Elah, Zimri, Omri, Ahab, Ahaziah, Joram, Jehu, Jehoahaz, Joash,

  Jeroboam, Zechariah, Shallum, Menahem, Pekahiah, Pekah, Hoshea.

  PROOF: The book of Kings.

 

  126.—Of what tribes did the southern kingdom of David consist after the revolt of the ten tribes?

  ANSWER: Of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin

  PROOF: 1 Kings 12:21; 2 Chronicles 11:12.

 

  127.—By what name was the kingdom of David's successors known, and how long did it last?

  ANSWER: The kingdom of David was known as the kingdom of Judah. It lasted 393 years after the revolt of the ten tribes, which

  was also 135 years longer than the kingdom of Israel. Whereas Israel was overthrown by the Assyrians, Judah was overthrown by

  Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. He took many of the people away into Babylon, where they remained in captivity for seventy

  years. There was then a restoration under Ezra and Nehemiah, in consequence of a decree of Cyrus, king of Persia, who had

  overthrown the kingdom of Babylon. But the kingdom of David was never restored. In about 540 years after the return from

  Babylon Jesus Christ was born. In seventy years after that, the Jewish state was broken up by the Romans, and afterwards it was

  "trodden down of the Gentiles".

  PROOF: The books of Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Matthew, and Luke.

 

  CONCERNING THE COVENANT MADE WITH DAVID

 

  128.—Did God make a covenant with David concerning the everlasting continuance of his kingdom?

  ANSWER: Yes, He promised to give him a son who would sit on the throne for ever, and to set up a Kingdom in Israel that should

  have no end; and that David should see it with his own eyes, and have an everlasting place therein.

  PROOF: "..I will set up thy seed after thee..and I will establish his kingdom..and thine house and thy kingdom shall be established

  for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever" (2 Samuel 7:12,16). "Although my house be not so with God; yet he

  hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is all my salvation, and all my desire, although

  he make it not to grow" (2 Samuel 23:5). "The LORD hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy

  body will I set upon thy throne" (Psalm 132:11). "I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,

  Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah (i.e. pause and consider)" (Psalm 89:3,4 & also

  see verses 34 to 37).

 

  129.—Has the covenant made with David been fulfilled?

  ANSWER: No. It was only fulfilled typically in Solomon; but its real fulfillment is to be in Christ. He was born in David's line and

  declared to be both the Son of God and the son of David who was the heir to David's throne.

  PROOF: "And the LORD hath performed his word that he spake, and I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the

  throne of Israel, as the LORD promised" (1 Kings 8:20). "Jesus Christ, the son of David" (Matthew 1:1). "Concerning his Son Jesus

  Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh" (Romans 1:3). "..and the Lord God shall give unto

  him the throne of his father David: and he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end"

  (Luke 1:32,33). "David..being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins,

  according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne; he seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ" (Acts

  2: 29-31).

 

  130.—Will Christ, then, yet occupy the throne of David?

  ANSWER: Yes, He will. At His second coming, He will sit on His throne and reign in Jerusalem as King of the Jews and ruler of

  all mankind.

  PROOF: "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his

  glory" (Matthew 25:31). "Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his

  kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever" (Isaiah 9:7). "..and he shall

  execute judgment and righteousness in the land. In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely" (Jeremiah

  33:15,16). "..the LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously" (Isaiah 24:23). "At

  that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the LORD" (Jeremiah 3:17). "..for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word

  of the LORD from Jerusalem" (Isaiah 2:3). "..one like the Son of man came..and there was given him dominion , and glory, and a

  kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass

  away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed" (Daniel 7:13,14). "He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the

  Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: and he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever;

  and of his kingdom there shall be no end" (Luke 1:32,33).

 

  131.—Is Christ coming to the earth a second time?

  ANSWER: Yes; He will return as really as He went away; and when He comes, men will see Him as really as when He was on the

  earth before.

  PROOF: "..this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into

  heaven" (Acts 1:11). "And he (i.e. God) shall send Jesus Christ..whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all

  things, which God hath spoken" (Acts 3:20,21). "..the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming

  fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ:..when he shall come to be

  glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe" (2 Thessalonians 1:7,8,10). "..when he shall appear, we shall be

  like him; for we shall see him as he is" (1 John 3:2). "Behold, he cometh..and every eye shall see him" (Revelation 1:7).

 

  CONCERNING THE RESURRECTION, RESPONSIBILITY, AND JUDGMENT

 

  132.—What will Christ do first when He returns?

  ANSWER: Assisted by His angels, He will assemble all those who are responsible to judgment, living or dead. The dead will be

  raised, and together with the living, will appear before His judgment seat. Each one will receive in the body according to what they

  have done in this present life.

  PROOF: "Jesus Christ..shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom" (2 Timothy 4:1). "And many of them

  that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt" (Daniel 12:2).

  "And (they) shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the 

  resurrection  of damnation" (John 5:29). "We shall not all sleep..we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with

  them" (1 Corinthians 15:51; 1 Thessalonians 4:17). "For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may

  receive  the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad" (2 Corinthians 5:10). "..for we shall

  all stand before the judgment seat of Christ..every one of us shall give account of himself to God" (Romans 14:10,12).

 

  133.—Who are responsible to judgment?

  ANSWER: All who know the Truth, whether they submit to it or not.

  PROOF: "..preach the gospel to every creature..he that believeth not shall be damned" (Mark 16:15,16). "He that rejecteth me, and

  receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him; the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day" (John

  12:48). "And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their

  deeds were evil" (John 3:19). "..the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things..unto them that

  are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth

  evil..in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel" (Romans 2:2,8,9,16). "I will raise

  them up a Prophet from among their brethren..and it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he

  shall speak in my name, I will require it of him" (Deuteronomy 18:18,19).

 

  134.—Are there some who are not responsible?

  ANSWER: Yes, many. It is the light of the Truth that makes people responsible; but spiritual darkness covers the earth, and where

  there is darkness, personal responsibility to a future judgment is not incurred.

  PROOF: "If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth" (John 9:41). "If I had not

  come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloke for their sin" (John 15:22). "Man that is in honour,

  and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish" (Psalm 49:20). "The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall

  remain in the congregation of the dead" (Proverbs 21:16). "..for sin is the transgression of the law" (1 John 3:4). ".."for where no

  law is, there is no transgression" (Romans 4:15). "but sin is not imputed when there is no law" (Romans 5:13). "For as many as have

  sinned without law shall also perish without law" (Romans 2:12). "the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people"

  (Isaiah 60:2).

 

  135.—What becomes of those who are not responsible?

  ANSWER: They die, and pass out of memory as if they had never been.

  PROOF: "..man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish..he shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall

  never see light" (Psalm 49:12,19). "..and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake" (Jeremiah 51:57). "They are dead, they

  shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to

  perish" (Isaiah 26:14). "Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more" (Psalm 88:5).

  "The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead" (Proverbs 21:16).  

 

  136.—What will the righteous among the responsible receive?

  ANSWER: They will receive immortality of nature. Their mortal bodies will be changed in a moment by the spirit of God.

  PROOF: "..the Lord Jesus Christ..shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body" (Philippians

  3:20,21). "..we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump..this mortal must put on immortality"

  (1 Corinthians 15: 51-53). "..earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven..that mortality might be

  swallowed up of life" (2 Corinthians 5:2,4). "he..shall also quicken your mortal bodies" (Romans 8:11). "Who will render..to them

  who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life" (Romans 2:6,7). "..he that soweth

  to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting" (Galatians 6:8).

 

  137.—What will become of those whom Christ rejects?

  ANSWER: They will depart from His presence with shame and vexation, to suffer as the Judge shall think they deserve, and at last

  to be devoured by the second death.

  PROOF: "Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire" (Matthew 25:41). "There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when

  ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out" (Luke

  13:28). "..many..shall awake..some to shame and everlasting contempt" (Daniel 12:2). "And (they) shall come forth..they that have

  done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation" (John 5:29). "The lord of that (evil) servant..will cut him in sunder, and will appoint

  him his portion with the unbelievers" (Luke 12:46). "And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither

  did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be

  beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required" (Luke 12:47,48). "And whosoever

  was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire..which is the second death" (Revelation 20:15; 21:8). "For he

  that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption" (Galatians 6:8). "For the wages of sin is death" (Romans 6:23).

 

  CONCERNING CHRIST AS THE VANQUISHER OF THE GENTILES AND THE RESTORER OF ISRAEL

 

  138.—When Christ has judged those who appear before Him, what will He do?

  ANSWER: He will make war upon the nations of the earth and subdue them.

  PROOF: "The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed..

  thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel" (Psalm 2:2,9). "I will tread them in

  mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment. For

  the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is some" (Isaiah 63:3,4). "These shall make war with the Lamb,

  and the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are with him are called, and chosen,

  and faithful" (Revelation 17:14). "..in righteousness he doth judge and make war" (Revelation 19:11).

 

  139.—When the nations are overthrown, what will He do next?

  ANSWER: He will gather the Jews from their dispersion among all the nations and re-establish them in their own land.

  PROOF: "..I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the LORD; and  will cause them to return to the land

  that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it..I will save thee from afar, and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and

  Jacob shall return, and shall be in rest, and none shall make him afraid..in the latter days ye shall consider it" (Jeremiah 30:3,10,24).

  "He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock" (Jeremiah 31:10). "I will take the children of

  Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land: and I

  will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all" (Ezekiel 37:21,22).

  "Now will I bring again the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel" (Ezekiel 39:25). "For if the casting

  away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be but life from the dead?" (Romans 11:15).

 

  140.—Will all of the Jews be restored to their land?

  ANSWER: They will all be gathered from Gentile lands; but they will not all enter the promised land: the disobedient are to be

  destroyed from the midst of them, as it was when Israel came out of Egypt under Moses.

  PROOF: "And I will bring you out from the people, and will gather you out of the countries wherein ye are scattered..and I will

  bring you into the wilderness of the people, and there will I plead with you face to face. Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the

  wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD. And  will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will

  bring you into the bond of the covenant: and I will purge out from among you the rebels, and them that transgress against me: I will

  bring them forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel" (Ezekiel 20:34-38).

 

  141.—Will the Jews be a righteous nation in the day of their restoration?

  ANSWER: Yes, a new covenant will be made with them under which all their sins will be forgiven, and the law of God will be

  written in their hearts and minds. All will know and love God, from the least to the greatest.

  PROOF: "Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my

  hands, that I may be glorified" (Isaiah 60:21). "Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will make a new covenant with the

  house of Israel, and with the house of Judah..I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their

  God, and they shall be my people..they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the LORD: for I 

  will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more" (Jeremiah 31:31,33,34). "For this is my covenant unto them,

  when I shall take away their sins" (Romans 11:27).

 

  142.—Will there be a new temple in their midst in that happy day?

  ANSWER: Yes, such a temple as has never been seen upon the earth for size and magnificence. The land will be turned into a

  paradise, and the temple will stand in the centre of the land in a section dedicated wholly to the Lord. To this temple all nations will

  regularly journey, to learn the way of God and to worship before Him.

  PROOF: Ezekiel 40-48; Haggai 2:7,9; Isaiah 56:7 quoted in Matthew 21:13, Mark 11:17, Luke 19:46; Isaiah 60:7, 13; Psalm 51:18,

  19; Zechariah 14:16,20,21; Micah 4:1,2.

 

   CONCERNING OTHER NATIONS DURING THE REIGN OF CHRIST IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD

 

  143.—In what relation will the nations of the earth stand to Israel and their glorious King?

  ANSWER: The nations of the earth will all be subject to Christ, and do honour to the Jews, of whose blessedness they will share.

  PROOF: " And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve

  him" (Daniel 7:14). "For the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted"

  Isaiah 60:12). "I will get them praise and fame in every land where they have been put to shame..I will make you a name and a

  praise among all people of the earth" (Zephaniah 3:19,20). "..ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall

  take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you" (Zechariah 8:23).

 

  144.—How long will the rule of all nations by Christ and the redeemed last?

  ANSWER: It will last for one thousand years.

  PROOF: "..and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years..they..shall reign with him a thousand years" (Revelation

  20:4,6).

 

  145.—Will the nations be mortal or immortal during that time?

  ANSWER: None will be immortal but Christ and His brethren—the saints. There will be death generally among men as now,

  however the nations will learn righteousness, life will be greatly prolonged, and it will be a blessed and happy time. 

  PROOF: "There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days; for the child shall die an

  hundred years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall be accursed" (Isaiah 65:20). "He shall judge thy people with

  righteousness, and thy poor with judgment..In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon

  endureth..He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy..all nations shall call him blessed"

  (Psalm 72:2,7,13,17). 

 

  CONCERNING THE END OF THE THOUSAND YEARS

 

  146.—Will the Kingdom come to an end at the close of the thousand years?

  ANSWER: The Kingdom will never end; but it will undergo a change at the close of the millennium.

  PROOF: "..and of his kingdom there shall be no end" (Luke 1:33). "..the kingdom shall stand for ever" (Daniel 2:44). "..his

  dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed" (Daniel 7:14).

  "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth..the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his

  people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God" (Revelation 21:1,3).

 

  147.—What will be the nature of the change that will take place?

  ANSWER: The nature of the change in its detail has not been revealed: but we know that death will then cease upon earth, and only

  those who have been granted immortality will remain. Christ will deliver up the Kingdom to the Father, that God may be all in all.

  PROOF: "..and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things

  are passed away" (Revelation 21:4). "Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father;

  when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The

  last enemy that shall be destroyed is death..And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be

  subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all" (1 Corinthians 15:24-26,28).

 

  148.—How will the cessation of death be brought about at the end of the thousand years?

  ANSWER: There will be a judgment of all those who will have lived during the thousand year reign of Christ. Those who have

  come into harmony with God will be made immortal. All others will be destroyed.

  PROOF: "Behold. I make all things new..I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that

  overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the

  abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in..the second death"

  (Revelation 21:5-8). "And when the thousand years are expired..they were judged every man according to their works..and

  whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire..and there shall be no more death" (Revelation

  20:7,13,15;21:4).

 

  149.—What relation will the ones who become immortal at that time have to those made immortal at the coming of Christ?

  ANSWER: They will be the harvest compared to the first-fruits of the great multitude to be redeemed. The Feast of Tabernacles,

  which will be kept by the nations during the Kingdom Age, will point forward to this great ingathering.

  PROOF: "And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of all the nations which came against Jerusalem shall even go up from

  year to year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the feast of tabernacles" (Zechariah 14:16)."..on either side of the

  river, was there the tree (i.e. wood) of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of

  the tree (i.e..wood) were for the healing of the nations" (Revelation 22:2). "Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that

  we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures" (James 1: 18). "These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto

  God, and to the Lamb" (Revelation 14:4).

 

  150. When death is abolished, will the earth be destroyed?

  ANSWER: No; the earth will endure for ever, filled with the glory of God and His deathless rejoicing people.

  PROOF: "..the earth abideth for ever" (Ecclesiastes 1:4). "..the earth which he hath established for ever" (Psalm 78:69). "But as

  truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD" (Numbers 14:21). "..and his servants..shall reign for ever and

  ever" (Revelation 22:3,5). And see passages proving answer 146. 
 
